Instructor: Now that we have Kali Linux installed,
I want to give you a basic overview
of this operating system in this lecture
so that you're comfortable with it.
And we're gonna be using it throughout the whole course.
So everything is gonna become easier for you
as we go through the course.
Now, the first thing that I want to talk about
is the status bar in here.
So you can see we have an applications menu in here,
and inside it you can see
all the applications are categorized.
So we have information gathering applications,
vulnerability analysis, web application analysis,
reverse engineering, and so on.
So you can go on each one of these entries
and just select any program that you want to run.
And the next menu that we have is the Places,
which shows you the most common Places in the file system.
So we have Home, we have the Documents, Downloads and so on.
So you can access the places from here,
and then you click on Home,
or you can just click on the files icon in here on the left.
And both of these will bring you to the Home directory,
which is actually the root directory.
So it says Home in here,
but the actual location of this, if I do Control + L,
you'll see it is /root.
So inside this you can see we have our Downloads,
Music, Pictures, similar to the way
that you'd have it in Windows and OSX.
We also have the timing here.
And in here on the right, we have more controls.
So the first thing that we have in here is the workspaces.
So Linux comes with multiple workspaces by default.
Basically what this allow us to do
is we can have this desktop in here, for example,
we can open the Places and we can, for example,
navigate to Downloads and do some work in here.
But if we go here to workplaces and go to the second one,
you can see that I have an empty desktop,
that I can do whatever I want.
And for example, I can launch Firefox in here.
And then again, if I want to go back to the first workspace,
click on number one, and I'm back in here.
And because I've already used up two spaces,
the system is already creating a third empty space.
So I can click on that and as you can see,
I'm in the third space where I can do more stuff.
The next part of the status bar is this last part in here.
And if you click on it,
basically the first thing it'll allow you to do
is control the sound.
Next, you'll see your connections.
So as you can see right now, and as I showed you before,
this is showing up as if we're connected to a wired network
because I configured this network
to use an ng network.
If you have a wireless adapter connected to this computer,
you should be able to see it here.
If you don't see it, then follow the link
in the resources of this lecture
to see how to properly connect your wireless adapter
or any USB device to a virtual machine.
Now, I should note, you can only use external USB adapters
in order to access wifi networks from Kali.
You cannot use the built-in wifi card,
but Kali should have internet connection anyway
because it is configured to use an ng network.
And as you can see in here,
it's telling me my wired is connected.
So if I actually go down to Firefox, I'll close this.
And if I just go to google.com,
you can see it is connected to the internet.
So let's go back to where we were.
And if we click here,
we also have the battery settings.
You have this button to turn off the machine.
This is to lock the machine.
And this will show the preferences
where you can modify the preferences of the machine.
So you have Bluetooth, wifi,
change the background and so on.
So you can spend some time getting familiar with this.
It's very easy and very intuitive.
Same goes to the file manager in here, very intuitive.
Double click to go in.
You can right click and archive
and extract here to uncompress it.
You can navigate throughout these files by clicking them.
And then you have the trash here,
which contains the deleted files.
Now we also have the doc in here,
which contains the favorite applications.
And you can also access all the other applications
by clicking on this icon right here, the show applications.
And this will show you a menu
with the most frequent applications.
You can click through these arrows
to load all of the applications.
You can also use this search box
to search through these applications.
For example, if I wanted to search for
this program right here, nikto,
all I have to do is type "nik",
and as you can see, it's filtering it for me.
And last but not least,
you can also switch between the desktops
that I showed you in here through this menu
by clicking on these desktops.
And if you wanna exit out of this,
you can simply press the Escape button on your keyboard
or press the show apps icon in here on the left.